+++

title = "A Dynamic Forecasting Model for the 2017 German Federal Election"

# Date first published.
date = "2018-06-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["[Lukas Stoetzer](http://lukas-stoetzer.org/)","[Marcel Neunhoeffer](http://marcel-neunhoeffer.com/)", "[Thomas Gschwend](http://methods.sowi.uni-mannheim.de/thomas_gschwend/)", "[Simon Munzert](http://simonmunzert.github.io/)", "Sebastian Sternberg"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Political Analysis 2018, Online First View*"
publication_short = "*Political Analysis Online First View*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper presents a dynamic Bayesian forecasting model for multi-party elections. Our modeling approach combines data from published pre-election public opinion polls with information from fundamentals-based forecasting models. The model takes care of the multi-party nature of the setting and allows making statements about the probability of certain events, such as the plurality of votes for a party or the majority for coalition options in parliament. We apply this model to forecast the German Federal election 2017. The forecasts of our model are continuously being updated on the platform zweitstimme.org. The value of our approach goes beyond the realms of academia: We equip journalists, political pundits, and ordinary citizens with information that can help to make sense of the parties’ latent support and ultimately making better informed voting decisions"

abstract_short = "This paper presents a dynamic Bayesian forecasting model for multi-party elections. Our modeling approach combines data from published pre-election public opinion polls with information from fundamentals-based forecasting models. The model takes care of the multi-party nature of the setting and allows making statements about the probability of certain events, such as the plurality of votes for a party or the majority for coalition options in parliament. We apply this model to forecast the German Federal election 2017. The forecasts of our model are continuously being updated on the platform zweitstimme.org. The value of our approach goes beyond the realms of academia: We equip journalists, political pundits, and ordinary citizens with information that can help to make sense of the parties’ latent support and ultimately making better informed voting decisions"

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = "http://zweitstimme.org/"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "figure1-1.png"
caption = " Zweitstimme.org Predictions"

+++