+++
title = "Zum Einfluss der öffentlichen Meinung auf Entscheidungen des Bundesverfassungsgerichts: Eine Analyse von abstrakten Normenkontrollen sowie Bund-Länder-Streitigkeiten 1974–2010"
date = "2015-01-09"
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Sebastian Sternberg", "Thomas Gschwend", "Caroline Wittig", "Benjamin Engst"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Politische Vierteljahresschrift* 56(4): 570-598"
publication_short = "*PVS*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Is the Federal Constitutional Court, as often depicted, a mostly independent actor in the German political system? The present analysis shows for the first time to what extent public opinion has a systematic influence on the decisions of the Federal Constitutional Court. Our evidence is based on the analysis of abstract judicial reviews and federal-state disputes in the period from 1974 – 2010. We show that the Federal Constitutional Court is more likely to rule in favor of the opposition, the stronger the public supports the specific substantive position of the opposition. Two mechanisms that could bring about this correlation are finally discussed. While the court does not blindly follow public opinion it will nevertheless consider the acceptance of its decisions as an important source of legitimacy"

abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "http://methods.sowi.uni-mannheim.de/publications/Sternberg_et_al_Abhandlung%20PVS%20%20BVerfG.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Replication", url = "http://methods.sowi.uni-mannheim.de/publications/ReplicationSternbergetalPVS.zip"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
